- [Instructor] Swagger can generate
the server-side stub for a API
however, we still need to code
some of the API implementation.
In this lesson, we will build out
the remainder of the API implementation
using Java and Spring.
If you want to follow along,
you must have a Java 8 JDK installed
and Eclipse installed on your workstation.
To get started, I'm going to navigate
to our course workspace,
where I have the hsports catalog server zip file.
You may remember this from when we generated
our server side stub for the hsports catalog API.
We're going to go ahead and copy that zip file
and then I'm going to paste it
within my Eclipse workspace.
I've placed my Eclipse workspace on my desktop.
So inside the workspace, we just paste the zip file
and then we go ahead and extract that zip file
into the workspace.
Once it's extracted,
we can navigate back to Eclipse.
And now we're going to import the project
which was created using Maven.
So just type existing Maven project
and here you see the option to import
a Maven project within Eclipse.
So go ahead and hit next
and then click on the browse button
and it's going to open to our Eclipse workspace
and then we can just select
the hsports catalog server directory
which contains the server stub generated by SwaggerHub
and you'll notice it pulls in our palm.xml file
because this is a Maven project.
Just go ahead and hit finish
and Eclipse will start to import
the server stub into the workspace.
Okay, we see it's imported
and from here,
we can see the code generated by SwaggerHub.
Now this isn't the full API implementation.
We still need to build out the code
that provides our data and capabilities.
So what I've done, is within the course workspace,
I've placed a productservice.java file
which you can find in the exercise files for the lesson.
Just go ahead and copy that
and then navigate over to your Eclipse workspace
and into the hsports catalog server directory.
Inside that directory,
we're going to go to source, main, Java,
IO, Swagger and then API.
And here, we will paste the product service class
alongside all the other API code.
Now, if we return to Eclipse
we can go ahead and refresh
the project explorer to see the product service.
Once we open the product service,
we can take a look at the code within it.
All we've done is provided the product data
within an array of JSON Product Objects
and we're using that array
in order to serve up the various products.
So all the data for our products
is contained within this class.
And then we just have two methods,
the get products method,
that provides the entire array of products
and the get product method that accepts an integer,
which is a product ID
and we can use this to get
a specific product within the array.
So this is how we're kind of mocking out the catalog data.
If we return back to the project explorer,
we will need to provide some implementation
within the product API controller class.
So what we'll do,
is we will autowire
the product service
within this class.
So using Spring's autowiring capabilities,
we can inject the product service
and then we can leverage it within
the implementation of this controller.
So we'll need to modify these three controller methods
that correspond with the API operations that we expose.
You'll notice that at the moment,
they're returning a not-implemented http status.
Let's change all of these over
to return a 200 OK.
From there, we need to make adjustments
to two of the controller methods.
The first is the product get method
which returns the entire catalog of products.
We need to specify a list of products
as the first argument to our response entity constructor.
So here I'm going to use the product service
to get a list of products
that get returned from the API implementation.
And then within the product ID get method,
here we're returning a specific product
for the operation that leveraged the template perimeter.
So here we just use the product service
to get a product
by its product ID.
And at this point,
we've built out API implementation.
All that's left is a little bit of configuration.
So to finish off the configuration of the API,
we're going to navigate
to the source main resources directory
and open the application.properties file.
We need to switch the port from negative one
over to 8080, where we're going
to run our API implementation.
Just go ahead and save the application.properties file
and while we're here, I want you to note this context path.
So this is the base path
that's going to be exposed after our domain
when we make an API call.
You'll see what I'm talking about in a little bit.
For now, just copy this context path.
Now, we're going to start up the API implementation.
To do that, we just right click
on the Swagger2SpringBoot class
within the source main Java folder.
Once we right click on that,
we go to run as and then Java application.
This is going to start our API implementation.
We can watch it in the console.
And here you see that it's started
and it's running on port 8080.
So at this point, we can go ahead
and open up a browser,
navigate to local host on port 8080
and then we need to specify
that context path we talked about earlier
and then we add forward slash product
to invoke the product operation on our API.
There we see all of the data
for the product list
and that's our entire product catalog
exposed by the hsports catalog API
and then we can leverage our operation
that accepted the template perimeter
by specifying a product ID within our URL.
And here we see we can access a specific product
through the API operation.
So there you have it.
We just built out our API implementation
using the server stub,
we generated from SwaggerHub.